[Effect of fsync](https://www.confluent.io/blog/kafka-fastest-messaging-system/#fsync)

**Summary**
In this blog, we have presented a thorough, balanced analysis of three messaging systems: **Kafka, RabbitMQ, and Pulsar**, which leads to the following conclusions.

**Throughput**: Kafka provides the highest throughput of all systems, writing 15x faster than RabbitMQ and 2x faster than Pulsar.

**Latency**: Kafka provides the lowest latency at higher throughputs, while also providing strong durability and high availability. Kafka in its default configuration is faster than Pulsar in all latency benchmarks, and it is faster up to p99.9 when set to fsync on every message. RabbitMQ can achieve lower end-to-end latency than Kafka but only at significantly lower throughputs.

**Cost/Complexity**: Cost tends to be an inverse function of performance. Kafka as the system with the highest stable throughput, offers the best value (i.e., cost per byte written) of all the systems, due to its efficient design. In fact, Twitter’s Kafka journey of moving away from a BookKeeper-based architecture like Pulsar corroborates our observations that Kafka’s fewer moving parts lower its cost significantly (up to 75% in Twitter’s case). Additionally, the work on removing ZooKeeper from Apache Kafka (see KIP-500) is well underway and further simplifies Kafka’s architecture.

[podcast episode](https://developer.confluent.io/podcast/examining-apache-kafka-performance-metrics-ft-alok-nikhil?_ga=2.184920618.2064755519.1732544561-927363427.1732544561&_gl=1*fxui8i*_gcl_au*NjE3MjU4OTY2LjE3MzI1NDQ1NjA.*_ga*OTI3MzYzNDI3LjE3MzI1NDQ1NjE.*_ga_D2D3EGKSGD*MTczMjU0NDU2MC4xLjEuMTczMjU0NTYyMy42MC4wLjA.)
